tools/lint/docs/usage.rst, before:

Running Linters Locally
=======================

You can run all the various linters in the tree using the ``mach lint`` command. Simply pass in the
directory or file you wish to lint (defaults to current working directory):

.. parsed-literal::

    ./mach lint path/to/files

Multiple paths are allowed:

.. parsed-literal::

    ./mach lint path/to/foo.js path/to/bar.py path/to/dir

``Mozlint`` will automatically determine which types of files exist, and which linters need to be run
against them. For example, if the directory contains both JavaScript and Python files then mozlint
will automatically run both ESLint and Flake8 against those files respectively.

To restrict which linters are invoked manually, pass in ``-l/--linter``:

.. parsed-literal::

    ./mach lint -l eslint path/to/files

Finally, ``mozlint`` can lint the files touched by a set of revisions or the working directory using
the ``-r/--rev`` and ``-w/--workdir`` arguments respectively. These work both with mercurial and
git. In the case of ``--rev`` the value is passed directly to the underlying vcs, so normal revision
specifiers will work. For example, say we want to lint all files touched by the last three commits.
In mercurial, this would be:

.. parsed-literal::

    ./mach lint -r ".~2::."

In git, this would be:

.. parsed-literal::

    ./mach lint -r "HEAD~2 HEAD"

Commit message:

Bug 1369787 - [mozlint] Remove 'rev' option from |mach lint|, r=bc
The rev option is inherently broken. It does let you lint files touched by any
revision, but it doesn't update those files to that revision first.  Instead,
they get linted at whatever the working directory is and their results are
bogus. Even if we did some magic to update the files to the proper revision
with in-memory version control magic, the config files would still be out of
date.

Plus, the new --outgoing option does pretty much the only thing --rev was good
for. Rather than cause confusion, I think it's better to just remove the
option.

MozReview-Commit-ID: 2y2UnfIkvsR

tools/lint/docs/usage.rst, after:

Running Linters Locally
=======================

You can run all the various linters in the tree using the ``mach lint`` command. Simply pass in the
directory or file you wish to lint (defaults to current working directory):

.. parsed-literal::

    ./mach lint path/to/files

Multiple paths are allowed:

.. parsed-literal::

    ./mach lint path/to/foo.js path/to/bar.py path/to/dir

``Mozlint`` will automatically determine which types of files exist, and which linters need to be run
against them. For example, if the directory contains both JavaScript and Python files then mozlint
will automatically run both ESLint and Flake8 against those files respectively.

To restrict which linters are invoked manually, pass in ``-l/--linter``:

.. parsed-literal::

    ./mach lint -l eslint path/to/files

Finally, ``mozlint`` can lint the files touched by outgoing revisions or the working directory using
the ``-o/--outgoing`` and ``-w/--workdir`` arguments respectively. These work both with mercurial and
git. In the case of ``--outgoing``, the default remote repository the changes would be pushed to is
used as the comparison. If desired, a remote can be specified manually:

.. parsed-literal::

    ./mach lint --workdir
    ./mach lint --outgoing
    ./mach lint --outgoing origin/master
