browser/extensions/onboarding/README.md, before:

# Onboarding

System addon to provide the onboarding overlay for user-friendly tours.

## How to show the onboarding tour

Open `about:config` page and filter with `onboarding` keyword. Then set following preferences:

```
browser.onboarding.disabled = false
browser.onboarding.hidden = false
browser.onboarding.tour-set = "new" // for new user tour, or "update" for update user tour
```
And make sure the value of `browser.onboarding.tourset-verion` and `browser.onboarding.seen-tourset-verion` are the same.

## Architecture

Everytime `about:home` or `about:newtab` page is opened, onboarding overlay is injected into that page.

`OnboardingTourType.jsm` will check the onboarding tour type (currently support `new` and `update`). Then in `onboarding.js`, All tours are defined inside of `onboardingTourset` dictionary. `getTourIDList` function will load tours from proper preferences. (Check `How to change the order of tours` section for more detail).

When user clicks the action button in each tour, We use [UITour](http://bedrock.readthedocs.io/en/latest/uitour.html) to highlight the correspondent browser UI element.

## Landing rules

We would apply some rules:

* All styles and ids should be formatted as `onboarding-*` to avoid conflict with the origin page.
* All strings in `locales` should be formatted as `onboarding.*` for consistency.
* For accessibility, images that are for presentation only should have `role="presentation"` attribute.

## How to change the order of tours

Edit `browser/app/profile/firefox.js` and modify `browser.onboarding.newtour` for the new user tour or `browser.onboarding.updatetour` for the update user tour. You can change the tour list and the order by concate `tourIds` with `,` sign. You can find available `tourId` from `onboardingTourset` in `onboarding.js`.

## How to pump tour set version after update tours

The tourset version is used to track the last major tourset change version. The `tourset-version` pref store the major tourset version (ex: `1`) but not the current browser version. When browser update to the next version (ex: 58, 59) the tourset pref is still `1` if we didn't do any major tourset update.

Once the tour set version is updated (ex: `2`), onboarding overlay should show the update tour to the updated user (ex: update from v56 -> v57), even when user has watched the previous tours or preferred to hide the previous tours.

Edit `browser/app/profile/firefox.js` and set `browser.onboarding.tourset-version` as `[tourset version]` (in integer format).

For example, if we update the tourset in v60 and decide to show all update users the tour, we set `browser.onboarding.tourset-version`  as `3`.

Commit message:

Bug 1387220 - [onboarding]document how to show notification and snippets;r=mossop
MozReview-Commit-ID: 47UIKw4NAQX

browser/extensions/onboarding/README.md, after:

# Onboarding

System addon to provide the onboarding overlay for user-friendly tours.

## How to show the onboarding tour

Open `about:config` page and filter with `onboarding` keyword. Then set following preferences:

```
browser.onboarding.disabled = false
browser.onboarding.hidden = false
browser.onboarding.tour-set = "new" // for new user tour, or "update" for update user tour
```
And make sure the value of `browser.onboarding.tourset-verion` and `browser.onboarding.seen-tourset-verion` are the same.

## How to show the onboarding notification

Besides above settings, notification will wait 5 minutes before showing the first notification on a new profile or the updated user profile (to not put too much information to the user at once).

To manually remove the mute duration, set pref `browser.onboarding.notification.mute-duration-on-first-session-ms` to `0` and notification will be shown at the next time you open `about:home` or `about:newtab`.

## How to show the snippets

Snippets (the remote notification that handled by activity stream) will only be shown after onboarding notifications are all done. You can set preference `browser.onboarding.notification.finished` to `true` to disable onboarding notification and accept snippets right away.

## Architecture

Everytime `about:home` or `about:newtab` page is opened, onboarding overlay is injected into that page.

`OnboardingTourType.jsm` will check the onboarding tour type (currently support `new` and `update`). Then in `onboarding.js`, All tours are defined inside of `onboardingTourset` dictionary. `getTourIDList` function will load tours from proper preferences. (Check `How to change the order of tours` section for more detail).

When user clicks the action button in each tour, We use [UITour](http://bedrock.readthedocs.io/en/latest/uitour.html) to highlight the correspondent browser UI element. The UITour client is bundled in onboarding addon via `jar.mn`.

## Landing rules

We would apply some rules:

* To avoid conflict with the origin page, all styles and ids should be formatted as `onboarding-*`.
* For consistency and easier filtering, all strings in `locales` should be formatted as `onboarding.*`.
* For consistency, all related preferences should be formatted as `browser.onboarding.*`.
* For accessibility, images that are for presentation only should have `role="presentation"` attribute.

## How to change the order of tours

Edit `browser/app/profile/firefox.js` and modify `browser.onboarding.newtour` for the new user tour or `browser.onboarding.updatetour` for the update user tour. You can change the tour list and the order by concate `tourIds` with `,` sign. You can find available `tourId` from `onboardingTourset` in `onboarding.js`.

## How to pump tour set version after update tours

The tourset version is used to track the last major tourset change version. The `tourset-version` pref store the major tourset version (ex: `1`) but not the current browser version. When browser update to the next version (ex: 58, 59) the tourset pref is still `1` if we didn't do any major tourset update.

Once the tour set version is updated (ex: `2`), onboarding overlay should show the update tour to the updated user (ex: update from v56 -> v57), even when user has watched the previous tours or preferred to hide the previous tours.

Edit `browser/app/profile/firefox.js` and set `browser.onboarding.tourset-version` as `[tourset version]` (in integer format).

For example, if we update the tourset in v60 and decide to show all update users the tour, we set `browser.onboarding.tourset-version`  as `3`.
